everyone Brendan Kerr from The Art of
Manliness calm in today's video Carl is
going to show us how to grill a
magnificent burger mwah okay we're going
to do burgers a lot of times we've all
been to parties we've had the dried out
burger we've had the one that's burnt to
a crisp today we're going to show you
some basic tips to make the perfect
burger and it all starts with the best
hamburger 80/20 is what you want to go
for so always find a butcher that if he
can he he grinds his own hamburger but
you want a ratio of 80% meat 20% fat
that makes the perfect burger make the
size divide it into the size burger you
want and I think one of the most
important things is don't overwork the
burger when you're making the patty
don't overwork it and again it doesn't
have to be perfectly round there you
want to try to just get it to the right
thickness and again don't worry if it's
got some splits or anything all that's
fine and then the other trick I know
everybody knows this guy his burgers
come off they look like a football and
then the first thing he does is he take
his spatula slams it down the grill and
all the juices come running out and he
has a Vesuvian flare-up but what we like
to do is we like to kind of trick the
burger a little bit take make a little
indentation in there so when it starts
to cook it will even out to the other
side of the burger and just like the
steaks we're not going to over season
the burger a lot of times you'll hear
people say well what about adding other
flavors into the burger onion
breadcrumbs and egg well that's a
meatloaf if you want to meatloaf cook a
meatloaf we're cooking burgers here
today and what we're going to do again
with our olive oil
and that olive oil not only imparts a
little bit of flavor but it helps the
salt and pepper to adhere to the meat
but this will help you make the perfect
burger fresh ground pepper on each one
and we're ready to go to the grill okay
we're ready to put our burgers on the
grill again a screaming hot grill that's
going to give us some good carmelization
some good grill marks first thing we're
going to do just like we did with the
steaks we're going to oil our grill
going to take our burgers and again just
put them on the grill
one thing about hamburgers unless you
know where your meat is been ground
whether it's freshly ground whether it's
right out of the store you'll always
want to cook a burger all the way
through if it's freshly ground then you
can cook it to temperature a medium rare
medium burger is fine otherwise with the
way hamburger is made you're better off
being safe cooking all the way through
which is in excess of 150 degrees Cal
burger has been cooking about three or
four minutes the key when you have
burgers you only want to flip them one
time you don't go back and forth back
and forth back and forth we just want to
flip them one time hopefully when we
flip these things over there will be
some good grill marks look at that
that's exactly what we're trying to see
and you can see how that well in there
has kept the burger from fluffing up
like a pillow so we've got some great
grill marks that those are looking
fantastic so a few more minutes on this
side well toast the buns we'll put some
cheese on we'll show you some tricks
there as well all right you're ready got
your grill you're ready to go your
burgers are almost ready to take off one
of my big pet peeves is when they make a
cheeseburger and they don't take the
extra 20 or 30 seconds it is to melt the
cheese on the burger it makes all the
difference in the world so we've got our
burgers they're almost done we got our
cheese all we got to do is take that
cheese don't worry about it spilling
over on the grill it'll all burn off
just set that there now you don't want
to do anything you don't want to touch
it again we've only flipped our burgers
one time close the grill we're going to
come back in about 30-40 seconds that
change is going to be perfectly melted
ready for our buns okay finally one of
the last things you've got to do we've
got our burgers to cheese melting you
got to toast the bun
so a lot of people like it we lightly
butter it we put it over here on a low
to medium part of the grill and again
you can leave it open it's not going to
take long at all maybe fifteen to thirty
seconds and you'll be able to take it
off and that grill will be perfectly
toasted have good grill marks ready to
put your burger with the milk and cheese
on it all right we're ready to take our
burgers off look at that that is perfect
first off let's check our bread
perfectly grilled good grill marks
that's what you want to see now let's
take our burgers
Berger one
Berger to look at that perfect that's
what you want a perfect burger to look
like do these steps you'll be a better
griddle
I want to make my friend Carl Engel was
showing us how to grill the perfect
hamburger follow those tips and you
can't go wrong the summer with grilling
your burgers for your friends now I'm
going to dig in to this burger perfect
until next time this is Bret McCabe
telling you to stay manly